Now, one thing that you learn very quickly
as a web developer is that you cannot
trust users,
they will cause chaos given the chance.
And we need to make sure that they're
not gonna submit gibberish data using
our forms.
And the first line of defense is
the browser's built in validation,
which makes it easy to for example,
mark the input as required.
So let's go to the add todo input,
I'm just gonna add the required attribute.
And now, if you try and
submit a todo without any data,
we'll see a notification from the browser
saying, please fill out this field.
And this kind of validation is helpful and
you absolutely should add it.
It gives you a nice user interface for
free but it's also insufficient.
There are some validation rules that
can't be encoded using these attributes.
For example, you might have a uniqueness
requirement and in any case,
if the user knows how to use dev
tools then they might just go in and
get rid of the required attribute or
something like that.
And so to guard against people doing
malicious things like that, you should
always use server-side validation
as well as client-side validation.
If you have a choice,
do the server-side validation first.
So, all right, in the database.js file,
we're gonna do the validation
when someone calls create todo.
First thing we'll do is if description
is empty, We'll throw an error.
And the error is gonna be,
todo must have a description.
And then we're gonna get
the user's existing todos so
that we can do a uniqueness check.
If todos.find todo,
Todo.description is equal to
the description that we've just submitted.
Well, then we're gonna throw an error
that says, todos must be unique.
All right, so now if we submit
a duplicate todo, We get an error page.
It's probably not exactly what we want,
but it's a good start.
It'd be nice if we could stay on the same
page where the form was submitted and
give the user an opportunity
to correct then their mistake.
So inside our page server.js file,
we're gonna import a new module,
fail from SvelteKit.
And inside our create action,
once we've got the data,
we're going to try to create the todo.
And if it fails, we'll catch the error.
And we're gonna return a fail
object Given an HTTP code of 422,
which indicates there was something
wrong with the data that was submitted.
And we'll pass the description back to the
page so that we can render it in the UI.
We don't just pass all of the data that
users submitted back automatically
because they could include things like,
passwords and
credit card data that we wanna be
careful about where we put that.
And finally, the error property
of this fail object is gonna be
the message that was thrown
from the create todo function.
You have a question from the Internet?
>> What's the difference between the fail
and error helpers from SvelteKit?
>> Yeah, so we're gonna get into
the weeds of error handling later on.
But essentially, if you just throw new
error with some message, then SvelteKit is
gonna throw it's hands up and say,
I don't know what to do with this.
I'm just gonna render an error page, and
I'm gonna tell the user that
an internal error happened.
If you throw an error that was created
with the error helper from SvelteKit,
then SvelteKit is like, okay, the user or
the developer knows what they're doing.
This is an error that they expected.
And so will actually display the message
of that error to the user instead of
a generic internal error.
When you're submitting form data,
this isn't an application error.
If the data is wrong,
it's a validation error.
And we wanna be able to distinguish
between errors that should result in
the error page being shown, and errors
that should be sent back to the user so
that it can be incorporated into
the UI without showing an error page.
And that's where this
fail helper comes in.
So an action can return data,
which is made available to the page and
by wrapping it in this fail function,
we're telling
SvelteKit that the user
submitted incorrect data.
And that's useful for displaying the
correct status code and things like that.
Okay, so in our page.svelte, we can
now access the data that was returned
from the action via the form prop,
which sits alongside export let data.
So let's create that, export let form.
And below the h1, we'll add an if blog.
If form?.error, the question mark is
there because if we're on this page and
we haven't just submitted some data,
form won't exist.
But if the form object does exist and
it contains an error property,
then we know that we need
to render some error UI.
P class = error, and then we're just gonna
display form.error to the user.
And finally, we're gonna add the value
that was previously submitted in
the description to the input so
that the user doesn't have to retype it.
So if the form exists,
we'll grab the description.
If it doesn't,
then we'll default the empty string.
Okay, so
this time if we do the same thing,
we try and submit a duplicate todo,
Learn SvelteKit.
Well, that's embarrassing,
I must have missed a part here.
I'm gonna open the terminal,
see what happened.
Okay, data.get is not a function.
So then an error in my code,
we'll go to page server.js and
see where that's happening.
It's because you'll notice up here,
this data object,
I called a wait request form data but
I forgot to add the parentheses somehow.
So I'll fix that.
And now when I add the duplicate todo,
It's gonna display the error that was
thrown from the create todo function.